Now we know what CloudTrail is,
let's spend a few minutes discussing how we work with CloudTrail.
And to do that, we're going to work for our customer, Globomantics.
Globomantics has several requirements around alerted.
Firstly, they would like to be alerted when the AWS root account is being used.
AWS best practice says that the AWS root account should never be
used for administration on a day‑to‑day basis,
that its access key should be revoked to enable
multi‑factor authentication on that account,
and then it's locked away and never used.
So if it is used,
that could be a security issue that Globomantics wants to know about.
Secondly,
Globomantics has a requirement to be able to view
API activity for at least 2 years.
They would like to be able to query, analyze,
and download the API activity using AWS native tools.
And, of course, security is paramount.
Only authorized personnel should have access to the logs
that contains the records of API activity.
So let's look at Globomantics's first requirement,
that they must be alerted when the AWS root account is used.
So here we've got our root user,
and let's pretend someone is logged in using the root user credentials.
Well, by default, CloudTrail will record that activity.
What we can do then is create a CloudWatch event.
We'll create a CloudWatch event that is triggered when that root
user logs in. Once triggered, we can send a message to SNS as a
target for an event. And SNS, in turn, can generate an email.
This email then is alerting Globomantics to this root account being
used. For Globomantics own requirements, we could also integrate
CloudTrail with CloudWatch. For example, for Globomantics's retention
needs, we can configure CloudWatch to retain its logs for at least 2
years. For their analysis needs, we can use log insights. We can use log
insights to query and analyze the logs and to download the results of
those queries.
And finally for security,
we have integration with IAM. So using a mixture of IAM users and IAM policies,
we can guarantee the information in CloudWatch will only be
made available to the appropriate users.
When working with CloudTrail,
we can do our configuration through the CloudTrail console.
Remember, through the console itself,
we can view 90 days of API activity. For that longer
retention then, we integrate CloudTrail with CloudWatch, but
also S3. When configuring CloudTrail,
you can configure your trails to record activity for a
single region or multiple regions,
depending on your particular API monitoring needs.
Now the rough steps to implement integration between CloudTrail
and CloudWatch involve creating a new trail,
selecting the optional CloudWatch integration,
providing the name of the log group that you want to store your
CloudTrail logs in, and providing the name of an IAM role that must
have the correct policies to work with CloudWatch.
Finally, we select the type of CloudTrail events that we want to monitor,
then sit back, and wait for the logs to start to appear in CloudWatch. So let's see if we can configure that.